Good afternoon and welcome
to the Rendezvous session.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm Apple's I/O technology evangelist
in worldwide developer relations.
One of those I/O technologies
is Rendezvous.
And over the past year,
we've been working very hard
to bring Rendezvous to as
many products as possible.
I have over 120 developers
actively working on projects.
More than 35 or thereabouts have shipped.
There's more on the way.
If you were at the session
earlier this week for open source,
you saw that OpenPlay now
has added Rendezvous support.
So in the future,
games that use OpenPlay will
automatically enable Rendezvous.
This is a big step forward.
So if you're a game developer and you're
here to learn more about Rendezvous,
the best recommendation I have
for you is go check out OpenPlay.
You're going to get the benefits
of OpenPlay plus the benefits
of Rendezvous automatically.
You know, as we look over the history
of networking communications,
there are a couple of important stages.
You know, I can think back to the first
time I used a dial-up modem,
dialed into ARPANET through
my local university,
and how exciting that was.
And then as AppleTalk came
out in the mid-80s,
and I was able to
easily network products,
this is the next generation.
It's the way that people should be
doing zero configuration networking.
It's plug and play.
It's how we want to make devices work.
So to go into that,
this session will detail
what Rendezvous is,
what we've been doing for the past year,
the new features that
are coming in Panther,
the new APIs that will be
available to you in the future,
and we want to go over some
hints for software developers
and hardware developers.
This will run the range both
from software techniques to,
licensing the logo.
All of you,
if you're doing Rendezvous development,
should be licensing the logo.
It's free.
It's an easy way for your customers
to know that they've bought a
product that works with Rendezvous.
So without very much further ado,
let's bring up Stuart Chechier,
who will go into all this.
Thank you.
Once again, just like last year,
it's a great turnout.
I'd like to ask everybody to shuffle
in and fill up the seats because
there are still people standing in the
doorway and people trying to get in.
So, if there are any gaps, close them up.
So I'd like to just get a show of hands.
How many people saw the WWDC presentation
last year on Rendezvous?
Okay, about half, that's good.
So, I'm not going to repeat
that material this year.
I'm going to do a quick overview to
remind you what it was all about,
but if you want to see
more detail about that,
pull out your old DVDs from
last year and have a look,
or if you weren't here last year,
then you might be able to find one
from a friend and have a look at that.
So, right now,
I'm just going to quickly skip
through to refresh your memory.
We're going to talk about
why we did Rendezvous.
We're going to talk about what
we did to solve the problems.
And we're going to talk about
how we made it all work.
So let's get on with that quickly.
We've got a lot to cover.
So the why is, 20 years ago,
many people in this room are probably
not old enough to remember that,
but 20 years ago,
there was huge competition
in wide area networking.
There were all these different protocols,
and devices from one vendor
normally wouldn't work with
devices from another vendor.
And this was obviously
not a good situation.
And the good news is that
in the last 20 years,
they've all died,
and the only thing we seriously
consider these days is TCP IP,
which is great.
So now let's look at
local communications.
In the similar era, 10 to 20 years ago,
we had all these different
connectors on our computer,
and the good news is,
those have pretty much
died and gone away as well.
Unfortunately...
We still have all these
different ways of connecting to
something like a local printer.
And as time moves forwards,
the list is getting longer.
These are not all
technologies that Apple ships,
but they're all local communication
technologies that are in the
marketplace that people are
working on and developing.
So what did they do to solve this
incompatibility problem in the wide area?
And the answer was they
picked one protocol and said,
everything talks that protocol, and yeah,
there may be some little
benefits of another protocol,
but there's a bigger benefit
in having a standard.
So we should do the same thing
for local communications.
And going even further than that,
the protocol for local communication
should be the same one that is already
won in wide area communications.
Now when I say that,
a lot of people react by saying, well,
that's crazy.
Nobody wants to type in subnet
masks and IP addresses just to
print on their inkjet printer,
and of course, they don't want to.
The point is to make it so that you don't
need to do all of that to make IP work.
So, the answer to solve this problem,
you all know, that's why you're here,
is Rendezvous.
And the press has been saying
marvelous things about Rendezvous.
There are lots and lots
of good stories about it.
One of my favorite headlines is
"Backstage pass to the future."
I think that really sums it up.
Tim O'Reilly, very well known and widely
respected person in the industry,
said this about Rendezvous.
"It is truly revolutionary.
It's one of the things that's going to
have the largest impact on application
design over the next couple of years.
We're just at the beginning of
the second internet revolution,
and Rendezvous is a big part of it.
You can't get much better than that."
So here's the quick recap of last year.
What do you need to do
to do IP networking?
Well, you need an address,
you need to be able to use names,
and you need to be able to browse
the network to see what's there.
Very simple solutions.
The point of this is to make it simple.
When you've got a gigahertz
processor and lots of RAM,
most software problems can
be done with enough effort.
But when you've got a little inkjet
printer for $50 with a tiny amount
of firmware and a slow process,
you don't have that luxury.
So one of our overwhelming
goals of Rendezvous and driving
principles is making something
that isn't just for Macs and PCs.
It's for all of the other little
devices out there as well,
and not just the devices
that currently do networking,
but many of the devices that don't
do networking at all right now.
So, in that principle of simplicity,
you need an IP address?
Pick one at random.
Send an ARP request?
If nobody answers,
you can use that address.
Just like AppleTalk did.
Very simple.
There's a range of addresses
reserved by IANA for this purpose,
and there's an internet draft
describing how to do it,
and you can find that at zeroconf.org.
But what I said is pretty much summing
up how you do linked local addressing.
Link local addressing isn't new.
You've probably seen it before.
When you see 169.254
in the control panel,
you say networking is broken.
It's understandable
why people think that,
but they think that because on its own,
a self-assigned address
isn't very useful.
In Jaguar, we introduced the rest of the
technologies to make it useful,
and now you can do things
with that link local address,
even if you can't communicate with
the global internet and buy books from
Amazon or do whatever you want like that.
It's been around since
1998 in Mac and Windows.
It's in OS X.
It's in Linux.
Pretty widespread.
You might know it under
the names Autonet,
AutoIP.
And of course,
IPv6 already has link local addressing.
Rendezvous works both on v4 and v6.
So, naming.
Similar principle as before.
DHCP is great.
If you have a DHCP server, that's great,
but if you don't,
make up your own address.
Same thing here.
DNS is great,
and if you have a DNS server,
there's no reason not to use it.
But if you just have two computers and
you want to exchange a file and you
forgot to bring a DNS server with you,
that shouldn't cripple you.
So,
multicast DNS is how you do name lookups
when you don't have a DNS server.
Same packet format, same query syntax,
just multicast it.
Every device has a little responder,
just like an AppleTalk NBP responder,
and when it sees a request for its name,
it answers.
Again, we want to make this very simple.
The specifications for that,
you can find at multicastdns.org,
but again,
the description I gave is most of
what you need to know about it.
The client has been in since Mac OS 9,
it's in 10 of course, it's in Linux,
there are several projects,
if you go to .local.org,
you'll find several people working
on multicast DNS for Linux.
Microsoft, characteristically vague,
I can say that at the IETF plenary
presentation last summer in Japan,
they described multicast DNS as
a vital technology for IPv6 and
said it was under consideration
and or underway at Microsoft,
so you have to take that
for what it's worth.
What this gives us is the ability to
type laser-eye to .local into your web
browser and connect to the configuration
page of your printer without having to
know what address it picked for itself.
So this is a huge step forward over
typing dotted decimal IP addresses,
but of course,
we're not content to stop there because
Apple Talk did better than that,
and we want IP to do better than that.
So we want to raise the bar.
We want you to be able to find
what's on the network without
having to know what name to type in.
Devices, we know,
are going to need link local
addressing anyway to work usefully.
They're going to need local
naming to work anyway.
Rather than add a third,
different body of code
to do service discovery,
the insight we realized is that
the multicast DNS code also gives
you service discovery for free.
For the guys making
the $50 inkjet printer,
that's a big win.
I'll explain quickly how that works.
You do a standard DNS query
for record type PTR,
and here the query is
semantically saying,
find me devices on the network that
speak the IPP printing protocol,
because I'm an IPP printing client,
and that's what I'm looking for.
You do that query,
and you get back one or more
responses from the devices on
the network that implement IPP.
We want these names to be user-friendly,
just like AppleTalk.
These are structured.
These are structured
names with three parts,
and the first part is the
user-friendly name that you
display in a graph user interface.
Normal host names in
DNS are limited to letters,
digits, and hyphens,
and they have to be short because you
want to type them on a command line.
But these things you pick in a browser,
so they can be long,
they can have spaces,
they can have uppercase, lowercase,
punctuation, full UTF-8.
You can put kanji characters in
because you don't have to type them.
You just click on them and list.
The names are structured
just like the old Apple talk,
name, type, and zone.
And here its service
name is the first part.
The second two labels
are the service type,
in other words,
the protocol name of the service.
And the remainder is the domain.
The names are structured
just like the old Apple talk,
name, type, and zone.
And here its service
name is the first part.
The second two labels
are the service type,
in other words,
the protocol name of the service.
And here its service
name is the first part.
The remainder is the service.
Service types.
Important point here.
A service is identified
by the protocol it speaks.
Human beings think in terms
of objects like printers,
but from a software point of view,
if you've got an IPP client,
what you're interested in is
finding things that speak IPP.
Some of them may be printers,
some may not.
There may be printers that don't
speak IPP and you can't talk to them.
It's no benefit finding
something you can't talk to.
At the network level,
what you're looking for is
the software entities that
implement a particular protocol,
not bits of hardware.
That's an important point
because many service discovery
protocols get that wrong.
They look for hardware and
then having found the hardware,
you're not quite sure what it
does and then you have to go
through a whole negotiation phase.
So having found the names of
the services on the network,
what is it that we found the name of?
And the answer is in DNS,
we found the name of a service record and
a text record describing that service.
So when it's time to print,
you want to know the IP address and port
number where that service can be reached.
Now, with DHCP, or link local addressing,
the addresses might not be
the same from day to day,
just like AppleTalk.
So when the user picks a default printer,
we don't save the IP address,
because that might be wrong tomorrow.
What we save is the Rendezvous name,
and then on demand,
we resolve that for an
address by doing this query.
And the answer we get back is that the
sales printing service today can be
found on port 631 at myprinter.local.
It's a PostScript printer,
so its page description
language is PostScript.
And the clever thing about DNS is it
can give you answers you didn't ask
for if it thinks that you're likely
to need to know that information.
It saves you asking another question.
And in this case, the responder said,
well, you didn't ask for the address
of printer.local because you
didn't know it was printer.local
when you asked the question,
but you're going to want to know that,
so I'll give you the answer anyway.
So there you see the address has
been put in the packet automatically.
So one query, one response,
you have the information you
need to print on that printer.
This was launched with great
fanfare last year in Jaguar.
It's in Darwin,
so it's very easy to get it and
run it on any platform you want.
There are also other
independent implementations
completely separate from Apple,
which is great.
Just like the others,
specification is freely available,
and you can get it from dns-sd
for dnsservicediscovery.org.
So, that was the recap of
where we were last year.
What's happened since then?
We shipped Jaguar,
and we shipped a few bits of
software that we're using Rendezvous.
iChat is an obvious example.
Finding network printers
is another obvious example,
although this time last year,
there weren't many Rendezvous
printers on the market.
That's changed dramatically.
Finding Apple Share servers
is another example.
Since then, we've done some more updates,
and we've advertised some more services.
You will see HTTP,
when you turn on personal web sharing,
you'll see it showing up in Safari.
You might say that too many of
them are showing up in Safari.
It kind of shows how many
people have accidentally
turned on personal web sharing,
but don't actually have a web page
there that they're intending to share.
Apple has shipped hardware
products using Rendezvous.
The obvious candidates are the ones
that don't have a screen and keyboard,
so the only way to find
them is over the network,
and you need to be able to do that.
No matter how busted the network is,
you need to be able to find it.
If the airport base station
is your DHCP server,
then you don't have DHCP until you've
connected to it to turn on DHCP,
so there's a bootstrap problem there.
Software products,
you've all seen Safari,
you've all seen iTunes,
the Shake network video
transcoding software is another
thing that uses Rendezvous.
A lot of products from third parties.
It's absolutely amazing to me
for a technology to get this
much adoption in just one year.
I can't think of any other new technology
that's had such an overnight success.
And I think that says a lot about
the cost-benefit ratio of Rendezvous.
It is so easy to do,
and the benefit is so immediate
and so obvious that there is really
no reason not to use Rendezvous.
Anywhere that you do networking,
you're looking for service,
you're providing a service,
adding those few extra lines to do
Rendezvous is such an obvious win.
So printers were the first candidates
because Apple-taught printers were
the mainstay of network printing,
and those were the
first people to jump on.
board rendezvous.
Got some other little bits of hardware,
which I'll show you later on.
TiVo's in the home, great example.
You have music and photos on your Mac,
and you don't want to sit around
the computer to watch them,
you want to sit in the living
room and watch them on the TV.
I talked about TiVo last year as
a purely hypothetical example of
something I thought would be good,
and the great news is
that they actually did it,
and less than a year later
they're shipping that as a
real product to customers.
Chaparral RAID, just like XSERV RAID,
another example of a headless device.
Martian NetDrive is
another great product,
little box, $400, put it in your garage,
turn it on, it's a network file server.
No screen, no keyboard,
it just shows up on the network.
You configure it through Safari,
which shows up automatically
using Rendezvous,
and it gives you a place to
store the data in your house,
so your computer doesn't have
to be turned on all the time.
Lots and lots of software products,
network databases, games,
Hydra is a great example,
I'll show you that in a minute as well.
FTP, clients and servers,
lots and lots of software things
because it's so easy to do.
We have Rendezvous on other platforms.
The Crocodile Rendezvous FTP server
for Windows advertises using
Rendezvous on Windows and shows
up in the FTP Rendezvous menus on
all FTP clients on Mac and Windows.
Swamp Wolf has taken the
Apple Darwin code and done some
extra work on that to turn it
into a system service for Windows,
and I hope to show you
that a bit later as well.
JRendezvous is an implementation of
Rendezvous written in pure native Java.
Interesting exercise in
showing what Java can do.
And the people doing that are
running it on cell phones,
apparently.
They have cell phones that
have a Java engine in them,
and so everything you
write has to be in Java.
I don't know about their product plans,
but we can only speculate about
where that might be going.
There's apparently a
version in Python as well.
Lots of things that people are doing.
And Linux, as always, has a lot of open
source efforts going on.
Dotlocal.org is an interesting
resource for the Linux work.
So, time for some demos.
Let's go to number four, please.
So, let's plug in and see what
we have on this network.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, first thing,
we have a Brother printer here,
one of the first companies
to ship a Rendezvous printer.
Let's turn that on.
Okay, well that's,
okay we have a link light,
I'll give that a second.
So if you're buying a printer now,
pretty much all the printer vendors
have printers with Rendezvous built in.
But if you have an old one lying
around that doesn't have Rendezvous,
this is a great little product from SEH,
Intercom Network Print Server.
This little box here
implements a print server.
So I plug it into the parallel
port on this old printer here.
This is just an obsolete printer I found
lying around in the corridors at Apple.
The reason you know it's obsolete is
because it doesn't have Rendezvous.
but there's hope for it
because we have this.
So this is the brother,
took a minute just to power on.
And just like that,
without knowing what address
it picked for itself,
we're now connected to its status page.
We can view the toner levels and view
all of its configuration information.
So, easy one-click connection.
I plugged in the Intercon print server,
and it shows up as well.
And that's it.
When I was bringing all this
equipment and setting it up,
the conference organizers were saying,
"You're mad.
You can't do this.
This is not the keynote.
You don't have two hours to set up.
You've got 15 minutes
between sessions." I said,
"It's okay, guys.
It's Rendezvous.
I don't need to set it up."
So we'll see whether they were right.
This is something I love.
I have to tell you about this.
People who work in data centers are
probably familiar with all the equipment
in the 19-inch racks that's got serial
ports on it for configuration and setup.
And we don't have serial ports
on our computers anymore,
so you end up needing one of
these USB to serial adapters.
Well, this is like that,
except this is an Ethernet
to serial adapter.
And you just take this and plug this
into the serial port on whatever
device you want to configure,
and it advertises Telnet service.
So now you don't have to run serial
wires all over your data center,
it's just on the network
like anything else,
and you can Telnet to it.
And I forget the price of these,
I think these are about $50.
These are even cheaper than
USB to serial adapters,
and this does Ethernet.
This is, it's called SitePlayer.
If you go to siteplayer.com.
Sorry?
I think SitePlayer is the place to look.
All right, good.
Yep.
Site, S-I-T-E-P-L-A-Y-E-R.
In fact, why don't I plug it
in and then we'll see.
So plug it in, light is on.
Okay, this thing has 16K of flash memory.
And in that 16K,
the guys implemented TCP, IP, UDP, ARP,
DHCP client, DNS client, Rendezvous,
web server, Telnet server.
Okay, and of...
And of that 16K,
9K of it is the HTML text
of the web pages.
So he's got 7K for code.
And this is not even assembly code,
this is C.
Absolutely incredible.
[Transcript missing]
Click it,
and Safari should open a window.
And just like that, we connected to it,
have access to its configuration page.
So, we
Rendezvous is all about enabling IP.
In as much as you can run IP over USB,
which you can do with various products
that I think emulate Ethernet over USB,
then Rendezvous just works
transparently like any other IP device.
But if you've got a device
that doesn't speak IP,
then it's kind of operating
in a different world.
Things like this Intercon print
server are the kind of gateway
from the IP world to that world.
I was going to bring
some equipment with me,
but unfortunately most of the things
these days that use serial ports kind of
fit in 19-inch racks and are a bit bulky,
but this is one thing I found at home.
This is a little voice-over IP product.
It's got Ethernet on it,
but you have to connect a serial
port with a terminal to configure it,
so this is a great thing for
connecting to the site player.
Maybe we'll get time to
look at that more later.
I think that's for this round of demos.
Let's go back to the slides, please.
Alright, so what new features do we
have to offer you in Panther?
Jaguar had IPv6 support in the kernel,
but Rendezvous didn't use it.
The good news now is that
Rendezvous is using it.
It sends its queries over v4 and v6,
and it will advertise services
that are running on v4 and v6.
So,
When you resolve,
you can now expect to be getting
V6 SOC adders back as well as V4,
and you should pay attention
to that in your code.
Don't assume it's always V4.
We have subtype browsing
for more selective queries,
that's described in the drafts.
We have a lot of
performance improvements,
both in terms of CPU performance,
and in terms of smarter algorithms
to use the network more efficiently.
These were things that we all
had planned on the roadmap,
but didn't make it into Jaguar.
We have a cool feature that gives you
faster purging of stale cache data,
which has been very widely requested.
I'll talk a bit more about that.
Network administrators last year at the
feedback forum asked us for a way to
enumerate all services on the network.
Now, for a software vendor,
finding everything on the
network isn't very useful if
you can't communicate with it.
It's only useful to find things that
you know how to communicate with.
But for an administration point of view,
finding everything on
the network is useful.
So we had to work out a way to do
that that was elegant and efficient,
and we did do that,
so that's now in Panther.
We have a bunch of new client
applications using Rendezvous services,
and we have some slight improvements
to the APIs that reflect feedback we
got from developers over the last year.
One of the trade-offs
in any network protocol,
including Rendezvous,
is if you're going to present a
list of resources on the network,
you have a trade-off between
the timeliness of that data
and the accuracy of it,
and how quickly you poll the network.
And if you're willing to poll
the network once a second,
you can have very up-to-date data,
but of course, that would be bad.
So, we tried to make Rendezvous very
efficient on the network and very
frugal with its use of packets.
And that means it will cache data
typically for up to two hours.
And what that means is that
if you shut down your Mac,
gracefully it sends a goodbye
packet and it disappears from
everybody's browser list.
But if you just yank the Ethernet
cable out of the printer,
it doesn't get a chance to
send the goodbye packet.
And people see these stale entries
showing up in the browser list,
and that's frustrating.
Because they see the printer,
they try to print, they get an error.
They go back to the list,
it's still there.
They try again, they get another error.
Very frustrating.
So, what we do now is we don't
continually poll the network,
because that would be bad.
But when you try to print
or use a service and fail,
then internally the code kind
of asks itself a question.
It says, well,
why were they trying to use that service?
Well, maybe it's because it's
in the browser list.
And if it didn't respond,
then maybe it shouldn't
be in the browser list.
So, the time to live on that
cache entry shortened from two
hours down to a few seconds.
The machine sends a couple of queries,
and if it doesn't get an answer,
then it's flush from the
cache and it disappears.
And that produces a dramatic difference.
In user perception.
They see the stale printer,
they try to print, it doesn't work.
They go back to the list,
and it's not there anymore.
Somebody must have just
turned the printer off.
Now, that's not actually what happened.
It was actually turned
off half an hour ago.
But the important thing,
this is very important from a sort
of human factors point of view,
is that the person has a consistent
mental model for what happened.
And then they're not frustrated,
because at least it makes sense to them.
What going even beyond that,
when the other machines on the
network see you do a couple of
queries and not get any answer,
then they also conclude that that
data must be stale and delete
it from their caches as well.
So only one person has to try
to access the stale printer,
and everybody gets the benefit
of having it disappear.
So big improvement in user
experience there without any
extra packets on the wire,
which is great.
One of the future plans,
I said this only works right now
with .local with local multicast,
but we are planning,
I'm not announcing any
dates or time table here,
but we are planning to do
this globally using unicast,
DNS queries, and DNS dynamic update.
So bear that in mind
when writing your code.
Don't assume that the domain
will always be .local.
Okay, so back to number four, please.
So one of my earliest memories of
computing when I was very young was
the big teletype machines that printed
out on rolls of paper at 110 board.
And that was how everybody
connected to the Unix mainframe
was over these serial connections.
And the DNA of that kind
of lives on in OS X.
Terminal may actually be the oldest
DNA in that sense that's in OS X.
And this is emulating a
roll of paper on a teletype.
And there are lots of things
using Rendezvous in Panther,
but I thought going all the way back
to the start would be interesting.
So can something as ancient as
this benefit from Rendezvous?
And this is pretty neat.
Command-Shift-K,
and we've got a little server list.
And right there is Telnet
connection to this site player box.
Let's put it into character mode
and let's plug it into this piece of
prehistoric hardware I was talking about.
Getting this demo set up was the
hardest demo of everything I did.
And if you remember using serial ports,
it's this stack of gender changes
and DC and DTE and CTSRTS,
X on, X off, board rates.
And you type stuff and nothing happens.
And you know, is it turned on?
But I finally found a
combination that works.
Let's power this guy on
and see what happens.
All right.
So, you know, we can set its IP address,
we can reboot it,
we can let it do its thing,
and this could be something over
the other side of the data center,
and you just telnet to it, and in fact,
all of the serial ports in your data
center just show up as things here.
So... All right, thank you.
Back to the slides.
So, what new APIs do we have?
The good news is,
they're modest improvements,
they're not things that are
going to require you to gut
your code and change it.
NSNet Services is unchanged,
CFNet Services is unchanged.
We've made some minor updates to the
low-level DNS service discovery APIs,
but the old calls are still supported,
so your current applications
will continue to work.
Just to remind you of the architecture,
on top of the kernel at the lowest
level is the MDNES responder daemon
that implements the protocol.
The DNS service discovery
APIs communicate with that daemon
to communicate what services
you want to register and what
things you want to browse for.
Led on top of that is the
core foundation CFNet service,
and led on top of that is
the Cocoa NSNet service.
Depending on whether you're writing a
Cocoa application or a raw BSD command
line tool influences which of
those APIs you would want to use.
That's really a personal preference.
But at the low level...
The new DNS service, Register Call,
offers a few improvements.
Some people need to advertise
services on a specific interface
on multi-home machines.
This is not common,
but if you want to do that,
you can now specify an interface.
When you pass empty string
for the name to register,
the system will use the
default name for you.
But you don't know what that name is.
That's kind of the point
of passing empty string,
is it saves you needing
to know what it is.
But if you're writing an application
where you want to filter yourself out
of the list of results you get back,
knowing what name the machine
picked for you is useful.
So we've added that.
We've raised the limit
on text record size.
The guidance for text
records remains the same.
They're intended to be a few
bytes of ancillary information.
But we did have some applications that
legitimately needed a little bit more,
and the text record was,
when we thought about it,
the correct way to solve
that application's problem.
So we've raised that limit a little bit.
We don't want to raise it above 1400,
because we want these things to
fit in single Ethernet packets.
Things get much less efficient when
you have to fragment the IP packets.
Text records can contain
arbitrary binary data.
That was almost true in the past,
except ASCII 1 was used as a delimiter.
Now, it's just an opaque blob of data.
It's passed as a pointer
to data and length,
so you can pass true binary data now.
And we've added a new facility,
which came as a request
from the printing industry,
for what we call placeholder
names or flagship names.
And the idea there is,
if you have a printer
that offers IPP printing,
and you call it sales,
and you have another printer
that also offers printing,
but it's using PDL data
stream protocol instead,
each service is its own namespace.
And most of the time, this is good.
You can have a file server
called sales department and a
printer called sales department.
And that's not a conflict,
because they're different things.
But having two printers called
sales department is confusing.
So the printer guy said,
when we register a printer
name called sales department,
we want to know that no one
else is using that name,
not just for IPP printing,
but for any kind of printing.
And the solution to that problem is
that for each family of protocols,
like printing,
one protocol is picked as kind of
the flagship protocol of the fleet.
And even if you don't implement that,
you can still print.
And if you don't implement that protocol,
you register a service, a fake service,
with a port number of zero
for the flagship protocol.
So a printer that only speaks
IPP would also register an LPR printing
service with no port number.
It won't show up in any
browser lists when people are
browsing for LPR printers.
But if another printer
tries to register that name,
it will get a name conflict,
and it will be told,
you can't have that name
because that's in use.
So this allows protocols to be
grouped into families that kind
of are conceptually common.
functionality even though
they're a different protocol.
Browsing, again,
if you want to pick a specific interface,
you can.
And the replies that come back indicate
which interface the reply was found on.
And when you have two
services with the same name,
one on Ethernet, one on Airport,
knowing which one you're
talking about is useful.
It doesn't happen very often,
but when it does happen,
this solves that problem.
Browsing, again,
if you want to pick a specific interface,
you can.
And when you have two
services with the same name,
one on Airport, knowing which one you're
talking about is useful.
It doesn't happen very often,
but when it does happen,
this solves that problem.
busy, idle, away.
and because of that,
all the iChat clients leave their
resolves active because they
want to keep getting callbacks
when that information changes,
but they don't need to be constantly
querying for IP address and port number.
They only want to know
about the text record.
So the new call lets you be more
selective and consequently more
gentle on the network by only asking
for what you really care about.
Text record limit, as I said,
has been raised in this call as well,
and you can fetch true
binary data in this call.
And we've made a number of
efficiency improvements so that
when things like iChat do leave
their queries active on the network,
it generates a lot fewer packets.
Some specialized calls.
If you want to make a proxy responder,
which is advertising
services on their behalf,
say you've got old network printers that
don't have Rendezvous and you want to run
a proxy that advertises on their behalf,
the register record call lets
you register a whole bunch of
records more efficiently and lets
you do specialized DNS records.
It lets you register any
arbitrary DNS record,
whereas the previous calls are
focused around the standard
DNS service discovery conventions.
DNS service query lets you
query an arbitrary record,
and the reconfirm record is one
of the triggers for the mechanism
I was talking about before
for the fast cache expiration.
If you get an IP address back
from DNS service discovery,
and when you try to
open a TCP connection,
it doesn't work,
you can call this routine to give a
hint to MDNS responders that that data
it gave you may not be good anymore,
and it should go back
and check on the network.
Obviously, use that cautiously,
because if you had a bug,
that could do bad things to the network.
Thank you.
So, in the last year,
we've had a lot of software
developers use Rendezvous,
and we've found some common
themes emerging of things
we had to help them with.
So, I'm going to talk about
some of those today.
So, obvious advice,
use Rendezvous and put
the logo on the box.
If you're a software developer,
it's very similar to
using the QuickTime logo.
If you use Rendezvous on OS X,
you can use the logo.
And that's a message to your
customers that you have a quality
product that's easy to use.
People were confused
initially about naming,
and unfortunately it is
just a little bit confusing.
There are two kinds of name.
There are short names that
you type on the command line.
You want them to be short and
easy to type and don't have funny
characters in them or punctuation,
and that's good for
command line interfaces.
But when you're browsing,
there's no reason to
be restricted to that.
So in Jaguar, there are two names in the
sharing control panels.
There's the computer name,
and there was the thing that
was labeled the Rendezvous name.
And it is the Rendezvous name in the
sense that it's your linked local
host name for command line use.
But a lot of people took that
to mean that Rendezvous names
have to be lowercase letters,
digits, and hyphens,
just like host names.
That's not the case.
And when you register a service,
most of the time, use empty string,
and the system will just use the
default computer name for you.
And if there's a name
conflict on the network,
it will add a number two
on the end and re-register,
so it will handle all of that for you.
If the user changes the
name in the sharing panel,
then it will update the name
of your service automatically.
So for most applications,
using empty string is what you want.
If you want to specify a different name,
that's fine as well.
iTunes is an example of that.
In iTunes, you can give a name
to your music library,
which may not relate to
the name of your computer,
because it's really naming the music.
It's not naming the piece of
hardware where the music is living.
So, pick which is appropriate
for your application.
Very important.
The service types are how you identify
what service a client is looking for.
And if different people
use the same service type,
then this is going to cause conflicts.
That's not good.
Clients are going to browse and find
things that don't actually make sense.
A good example of this is WebDAV.
It's a file sharing protocol
that runs over HTTP,
which is a reasonable design decision.
But it's a private design
decision for the protocol.
If you have a WebDAV server,
don't advertise it as underscore HTTP,
because even though it is using HTTP,
it's not something that a user
necessarily expects to see in their
web browser and connect to and see
something that's human meaningful.
Now, you may have a web interface
to your server as well,
in which case you advertise that.
But underscore HTTP means something
a human being would like to
look at in their web browser.
WebDAV as a file sharing protocol should
be advertised as underscore WebDAV.
And the fact that it's layered on top of
HTTP is just an implementation detail.
And if you think about this,
everything runs on top of TCP and
everything runs on top of IP,
but that doesn't mean all
protocols are the same.
The fact that they share a common
foundation doesn't mean that they're
semantically the same protocol.
You don't have to pay to
register a protocol name,
you just fill in the form.
If you want to play
around and experiment,
all legal service names
are 14 characters or less,
so make a longer name and you know you
won't conflict with a real product.
Some developers have concerns
that by registering their service,
they give away the product
they're working on,
so that's fine to work with some
kind of temporary placeholder name,
but when you ship,
do the IANA form and get
a legal service name,
because that way you own it and
you can take action if other people
come and trample on your service
name and mess up your product.
Just like using empty string for name,
when you register a service or
when you browse for services,
use empty string for domain.
Empty string means do the default,
do the right thing that the
system has been configured to do.
And right now that means local,
but in future that will
mean different things.
And if you pass local,
we'll assume you meant
you only want local.
So unless that's really what you mean,
pass empty string.
Another common error,
partly because the sample
code we gave out kind of
illustrated how to do resolves,
and people assumed that
you had to do it that way.
You don't need to resolve
everything you find.
That's very hard on the network.
You only need to resolve when you're
ready to actually use the service.
And a related point is,
don't store an IP address and port
number in the preference file,
because it might be wrong.
Don't even store a host name.
Store the service name,
look it up on demand.
Don't assume IPv4 anymore.
Every Jaguar and
Panther system runs IPv6,
and when you browse,
you will find IPv6 addresses.
So you should either use them,
or you should very least be aware of them
and handle them properly in your code.
Don't crash or bail out just because
you get a SOC adder that's not AFInet.
When you do a resolve,
remember to cancel it afterwards,
because as long as
that resolve is active,
like iChat, it's constantly querying
the network saying,
has the data changed,
has the data changed?
And you do this enough,
it can be a big burden on the network.
After you've established
your TCP connection,
you can cancel the resolve.
Now,
remember that a resolve can and usually
will return more than one result.
If you've got multi-homing,
if you've got v6,
you may have link local addresses and
global addresses and v4 addresses,
and the resolve call will
give you all of those.
You don't know which, if any,
of those addresses are reachable to you,
so if you really want to
write a robust application,
you have to try connecting to each
of those and see which one works.
But having succeeded,
it's time to kill the resolve,
because you don't need it anymore.
Common error?
In the applications that were
resolving everything they found,
which is bad in the first place,
when they got a remove message
for a service going away,
they would do a stop
resolve on that object,
and that doesn't work.
When you have a NSNet service object
and you start a resolve on it,
you have to stop the
resolve on that object,
not a different object that happens
to contain the same service name.
And that was an easy mistake to make,
but when every resolve you start,
you've got to keep your own
data structures in memory,
your own list of resolves,
so that you can actually get
to those objects and cancel
them when they're finished.
Don't overload Rendezvous.
I know it's great and everybody loves it,
but you can take things too far.
iChat is an example of
good use of Rendezvous.
They need to communicate information
to all the peers on the network,
and the choice was use their own
multicast protocol or use Rendezvous.
And we looked at the design and we said,
"Well, you know what?
There's no point in you
inventing your own thing.
Rendezvous is there.
Put the data in the text record.
Leave a resolve active.
That is the right thing to do and it's
the most efficient on the network.
But before you make that decision,
look at it and make an informed
decision about whether that's
really the right way to do it.
General piece of advice,
this is not really Rendezvous,
but it's good advice
about network design.
Now that more and more
products are doing networking,
this gets more important.
Any periodic polling
on the network is bad.
And in your lab, it might seem fine,
but you put a thousand
machines doing that,
and suddenly things add up very,
very fast.
100 meg and gigabit ethernet
can carry a lot of traffic,
but airport is much slower,
and multicast or broadcast over
airport is even slower than that.
Airport slows down from 54 megabits to
1 megabit to send a broadcast packet.
So even a small number of broadcasts are
disproportionately expensive on airport.
Be very careful with that.
Also, the history of IP has assumed
well-known port numbers,
and that is less and less true.
Especially now with fast user switching,
you can't assume your application
will get the port it expects,
because another copy of your
application might already be running.
Pass zero when you bind,
you'll get a random port,
and the good news is Rendezvous
advertises your port.
You don't need fixed ports anymore
when you're using Rendezvous.
Final sanity check.
When the product is done and it works
and everything seems to be good,
have a look at the wire.
Have a look at the packets on the
wire with a network sniffer like
Ethereal or Etherpeak or TCP dump.
Newer versions of them already
understand multicast DNS.
If you've got an older version,
it's very easy to add
multicast DNS support.
Because it's standard DNS packet format,
you just need to tell the packet
sniffer that port 5353 is DNS packets.
Here's an example how
to do it with Etherpeak.
You just open the decoder file,
find the DNS line, 35 hex is 53.
Duplicate that line and put in 14E9,
which is 5353 in hex.
You don't need to write that
down because you can find that
on the multicast DNS website.
Have a look at the packets on the
wire and see if there's anything
that you might be able to improve.
It's very easy to have an application
where sitting in front of the
computer everything is working fine,
but on the wire it's sending
100 packets a second.
And you say, okay,
there's more to correctness
than just does the right
thing appear on the screen.
So, hardware developers,
similar kind of advice.
Put Rendezvous in your products,
pass the conformance test,
and put the logo on the product.
The conformance test
is Apple's assurance,
and your assurance,
and the customer's assurance that
products with the Rendezvous logo
do in fact work well and do give the
experience that people are expecting.
Put Rendezvous in your products,
pass the conformance test,
and put the logo on the product.
The conformance test
is Apple's assurance,
and your assurance,
and the customer's assurance that
products with the Rendezvous logo
do in fact work well and do give the
experience that people are expecting.
Amen.
He went through the menus and there
was a checkbox that said "Enable
UPnP", which is off by default.
So, they just missed the point of,
like they put all that code in
the product and then missed the
point of why they put it there.
So, we don't want people to
make mistakes like that.
Don't skip link local addressing.
Something we've heard
from some developers is,
well, you give us the multicast
DNS code on the Darwin site,
so that's great, but you don't give us
link local addressing,
so we can't do that, it's too hard.
The reason we don't have the sample
code there is because there really
isn't any sample code to give,
because the algorithm is,
send an ARP packet,
listen for an ARP reply,
and if you get one,
pick a different random number.
And the way you send and receive
ARP packets is so platform-specific that
it would be different in every platform.
It's not a standard
API the way Sockets is,
because it's generally
down at the kernel level.
And that means that the only remaining
sample code we have left to give
you is a random number generator,
which would kind of be
insulting your intelligence.
It really is very, very simple,
and it is a vital part of Rendezvous,
because everything you're
seeing up on the stage here is
using link local addressing,
right?
That's how I can just plug
it in and have it work,
and I didn't bring a DHCP server.
And that's an important part of making
network products that cannot fail,
and that's part of Rendezvous.
It's the, when you plug it in,
it will work, no excuses, no, oh, well,
you didn't have the right subnet mask,
and your DHCP client ID was wrong.
None of that nonsense, right?
You plug it in, it works.
For that to be the case,
you can't be relying on
things like DHCP and other
infrastructure on the network.
DHCP is great,
definitely put a DHCP client in,
but don't make it your
only way of configuring.
If you're ever in doubt about
how fast the things should
respond or things like that,
think about USB.
You saw when I plugged
in these devices here,
they all showed up within a few seconds.
There are some vendors who came to us
with a thing that would try DHCP for
five minutes before it gave up.
And we had to say, look,
nobody wants to wait five minutes,
struggling, you know, not sure why their
printer isn't showing up,
because about 30 seconds in, you know,
they're taking a screwdriver to it and
changing dip switch settings and fiddling
with it and thinking the Ethernet
cable's bad and doing more damage.
So, USB is active within a few
seconds and Rendezvous network
devices should be as well.
Another common thing with network
devices is when you change
your configuration setting,
you have to power cycle
them to make them work.
Don't do that.
All Ethernet hardware pretty much these
days gives you link change detection,
so when you detect the
cable is connected,
configure a link local
address and advertise your
services on that interface,
just like plugging in a USB cable.
You don't have to power cycle a
printer when you plug in the USB cable,
and you shouldn't have to power cycle
it when you plug in the Ethernet cable.
The easiest way to get the multicast
DNS and DNS service discovery into
your product is just to take our code.
It's about 75K,
which is not big in today's world of
bloated multi-megabyte applications.
If you're doing something truly tiny,
then contact us and we can work with you,
because as I say,
we've got some developers doing
really tiny implementations.
They cut a lot of corners to do that,
but talk to us and we can set you up
with something that's appropriate.
But the most full-featured,
fully-tested code is the
same code that's in Panther.
You know that's been run
on millions of machines,
so that is really the code that
you have the most confidence in.
Okay, so some other interesting
sessions you might want to go to.
The first one is already over,
but you'll have it on your DVD,
so you can review that if you want.
We've got networking sessions and
networking feedback tomorrow and Friday.
Craig is our developer relations guy.
If you have any questions, contact him.
For the specifications, zeroconf.org,
multicastdns.org, dnssd.org,
all have those drafts.
They've just been updated last week,
so they're up to date with all
the latest stuff in Panther.
We have Apple developer information.
We also have the
Apple Rendezvous mailing list,
which is a great place to ask questions.
So that's often a good place
to ask your first question,
instead of going straight
to Craig with a question.
Many times asking on the
list will get you an answer.